---
id: 1
title: Com Objects: Old school cool
date: 2013-07-07T01:59:36+00:00
author: Jeff Scripter
layout: post
guid: http://www.JPScripter.com/?p=1
permalink: /ComObjects/
categories:
  - Objects
---

Com Objects

 

Why

This was a way to more easily allow software to interact with each other. This solved the problem of allowing 'simple' interface of a piece of software in a standard way.

 

History

The com interface was introduced in 1993 as an application binary interface. This was later updated to allow cross machine interfaces with DCOM. Currently, this is mostly been replaced\wrapped with the CLR standards in .net and DCOM has transitioned more to web services like soap and rest. However, There are still several applications that rely on COM.

 

What is it?

A way for programmers to interact with other applications without searching the system for dlls and reading endless documentation.

 

Where is it?

Com objects are binary interfaces that are registered in HKR (User or machine)

DLLs register as a com name and version
Com object Interface name
Hkey_Classes_root\<Interface>\CLSID
CLSID is located
Hkey_Classes_Root\CLSID\<CLSID>
{D2EOFE7F-D23E-48E1-BCO-6FA8CC346474} 
n procServer32 
PrcgID 
Programmable 
TypeLib 
Version 
VersicnIndeoendentPrcaID
This will locate the binary that can manage the interface.
 

Code - list all com objects

new-psdrive -Name hkr -PSProvider Registry -Root hkey_classes_root -Scope script

$ComObject = Get-ChildItem -path hkr:\clsid\*\VersionIndependentProgID

 

Foreach ($ComObjectInterface in $ComObject)

{

    $ComObjectInterfaceName - $ComObjectInterface.GetValue($Null)

    New-object -ComObject $ComObjectInterfaceName

 

}

 

DCOM

Registered as apps in
 HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\AppID

 

DCOM can be controlled in the comexp.msc snapin

 

Practical

There are several applications that can have useful com interfaces like RSA soft token, MSI installer, windows updates and Office.
If you have to troubleshoot errors, The application event log can capture some of the more severe errors. 