---
id: 4
title: WMI
date: 2013-07-07T01:59:36+00:00
author: Jeff Scripter
layout: post
guid: http://www.JPScripter.com/?p=4
permalink: /WMI/
categories:
  - Objects
---
WMI

 

Why -

Makes a modern Object based APIs for the windows OS. This is one of the reasons windows is an API based OS vs Linux being file based.

 

Built on the Common information Model (CIM), and wbem standards used by other OS but Microsoft added it's own spin on it with wmi. This groups information in related Object classes and leverages providers to manage those objects.

CIM - Data model and Data layout 

WBEM - standards for interacting with CIM

WMI - Microsoft implementation of both

 

History

Started in Win NT SP4  as an web-based enterprise management (WBEM) tool. It was a download that

 

What is WMI?

Database

C:\windows\System32\wbem

 

Namespace

Part of the CIM standards for organizing like Classes

Permissions are managed in CompMGMT.msc but don’t!

 

 

MOF - Managed Object Format

These are your classes definitions and link the provider

 

MFL - Message format language - XML used for interpreting binary data structures

 

Classes -  This is the implementation of the MOF file and

 

Instances

 

Provider

 

 

Where is WMI

Registry

HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Wbem
Database
MOF Files
 

 

Practical

WMI powershell cmdlets take some shortcuts and are based on RPC
CIM powershell cmdlets stick to the CIM standards more closely, offer intel-sense
WMI explorer for identifying objects
SCCM inventory
DON’T RECOMPILE ALL!
_Uninstall mofs exist
AUTORECOVER Key is better
 

 sources -
 https://www.c-sharpcorner.com/article/in-depth-look-at-wmi-and-instrumentation-part-i/